Doc 9195 dev tutorial guides (#2259)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/tutorials/pages/buckets-scopes-and-collections.adoc

:page-pagination:
include::partial$tutorial-globals.adoc[]

> = Buckets, Scopes and Collections

Reviewer: Please put doc title on first line with the doc attributes after it.

> :description: pass:q[In this section, you'll learn how to logically partition your data in Couchbase using buckets, scopes and collections.]

Reviewer: no need to pass through.
 
```suggestion
:description: In this section, you'll learn how to logically partition your data in Couchbase using buckets, scopes and collections.
```

[abstract]
{description}

> == So what is a Bucket exactly?

Reviewer: Use title case for headings (throughout)

```suggestion
== So What is a Bucket Exactly?
```

If you think in database terms, a Couchbase Bucket is analogous to a database: it's the data store where you're going to store and retrieve related information about the students.

> You can click on the menu:Dashboard[Buckets] link to access the Buckets page, then click on btn:[Add Bucket]

Reviewer: Use full stop at end of sentences, even if there is markup at the end of the sentence. (Throughout)

```suggestion
You can click on the menu:Dashboard[Buckets] link to access the Buckets page, then click on btn:[Add Bucket].
```

> And from this dialog, you can create the `student-bucket`

Reviewer: Don't rely on the images to tell users what to do in case they are using screen readers or can't view the images. Be specific about what you want them to do. So in this case, say something like:

```suggestion
In this dialog, enter `student-bucket` in the *Name* box.
```

> image::add-student-bucket.png[width="{image-width}"]

Reviewer: Please add alt text if possible for screen readers / people who can't view the images, e.g. "Add Data Bucket dialog with student-bucket in the Name box". (Throughout)

Once you have entered the bucket name, press the btn:[Add Bucket] button to return to the main bucket list.

== Scopes and Collections

> There's nothing stopping you from dumping every document into the bucket. But in all but the simplest cases, it's better to provide some kind of separation. between documents of different types. Couchbase has a simple hierarchy model which allows for such separation:

Reviewer 2: extra `.`

Author: fixed

> include::partial$student-database-diagrams.adoc[tags="couchbase-hierarchy"]

Reviewer: Replace with images (throughout).

You're already familiar with `clusters`, `nodes` and `buckets`. Inside a bucket you can also have any number of `scopes`, and inside a `scope` you can have any number of `collections`. Scopes and collections appear to do the same thing, so we'll look at the key differences below:

[horizontal]
*scopes*:: acts as a parent to a `collection`. You can apply permissions at the scope level, which will restrict access to the collections inside it.

> *collections*:: a collection can contain a set of related documents.

Reviewer: No need to bold the definitions in a definition list. Also don't use fixed width (backquotes) for new terms / definitions, if they're not code.

```suggestion
scopes:: acts as a parent to a collection. You can apply permissions at the scope level, which will restrict access to the collections inside it.
collections:: a collection can contain a set of related documents.
```

> NOTE: Remember `scopes` and `collections` are optional: you can insert documents direcly into a `bucket` if you wish.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, if you don't provide a `named` scope and collection, your document will still end up in a scope, it's just called `_default`. Just thought it might be confusing to say it will insert directly into the bucket as it makes me think it won't use scopes and collections entirely.

Reviewer: Likewise don't use fixed width for new terms / definitions, save it for code. We use italics for new terms when necessary.

```suggestion
NOTE: Remember scopes and collections are optional: you can insert documents directly into a bucket if you wish.
```

Author: Good point, yes

Rather than have our student records stored in an anonymous bucket, we're going to add two collections: one will be used to store the student records, the other will be used to store the course details.

Now looking again at the relational design of our student database:

include::partial$student-database-diagrams.adoc[tags="student-record-erd"]

> we can see that our equivalent document-based system could do with a little decomposition:

Reviewer 3: Should be '**W**e' here no?

[horizontal]
`student-record-collection`:: contains the student records, and within each student record we carry a list of all
their enrollments. Again, this moves away from the standard relational decomposition since we're actually storing the
enrollments as part of the student's record, instead of implementing it as a link table between the students and the
courses.

`course-record-collection`:: The enrollment records will carry a link to the course record it applies to, so we can
retrieve other details such as the full name of the course and the number of credit points the student receives for
completing it.

NOTE: Of course, it's possible to just add the details of the course to the student's enrollment records, but this
would be very bad design. Changing the credit points on the course, for example, would involve running through every
student's enrollments and changing the credit details on each one. This is why the document model and relational model
are used in conjunction to get the best combination of robust design and performance.

Now that you understand the basics of scopes and collections, return to your admininstration screen so we can add
them to your bucket.

> === Adding the student scope

Reviewer: Title case for headings throughout. I haven't bothered marking all of these up.

```suggestion
=== Adding the Student Scope
```

= Buckets, Scopes and Collections
:description: In this section, you'll learn how to logically partition your data in Couchbase using buckets, scopes and collections.
:page-pagination: full

include::partial$tutorial-globals.adoc[]

[abstract]
{description}

== So What is a Bucket Exactly?

If you think in database terms, a Couchbase Bucket is analogous to a database: it's the data store where you're going to store and retrieve related information about the students.

You can click on the menu:Dashboard[Buckets] link to access the Buckets page, then click on btn:[Add Bucket].

In this dialog, enter `student-bucket` in the *Name* box.

image::add-student-bucket.png[alt="Adding student bucket to Couchbase"]

Once you have entered the bucket name, press the btn:[Add Bucket] button to return to the main bucket list.

== Scopes and Collections

In all but the simplest cases, it's better to provide some kind of separation between documents of different types.
Couchbase has a simple hierarchy model which allows for such separation:

> image::multi-level-data-containment.png[alt="Couchbase data hierarchy"]

Reviewer: Just noticed that this image has a disclaimer at the bottom left saying "Confidential and proprietary: do not distribute without Couchbase consent"! It's not a problem for now, but I think we should eventually replace this image, e.g. with something we have generated in UML.

Author: Good point.  I'll put something together for the follow up release.

This is why the document model and relational model are used in conjunction to get the best combination of robust design and performance.

Now that you understand the basics of scopes and collections, return to your admininstration screen so we can add
them to your bucket.

=== Adding the Student Scope

Return to the `Buckets` screen and click the btn:[Scopes & Collections] link.

image::click-scopes-and-collections.png[alt="Examining the scopes and collections"]

Although the bucket is created with a default scope, for this example, you're going to create your own. Click on the btn:[Add Scope] link.

On the next dialog, create your `art-school-scope`.

image::create-scope.png[alt="Dialog to create a new scope"]

Press btn:[Save] to save the new scope and return to the bucket screen.
The new scope should be showing in the list.

== Adding the collections

Next, we're going to add two collections for the new scope. Click the btn:[Add Collection] link for the
`art-school-scope'.

image::add-collection-link.png[alt="Adding a new collection"]

When the collection dialog is displayed, fill in the name of the first collection: `student-record-collection`; then

> press  btn:[save]

Reviewer: Capitalization and full stop

```suggestion
press btn:[Save].
```
